docs/index.asciidoc, before:

:plugin: avro
:type: codec

///////////////////////////////////////////
START - GENERATED VARIABLES, DO NOT EDIT!
///////////////////////////////////////////
:version: %VERSION%
:release_date: %RELEASE_DATE%
:changelog_url: %CHANGELOG_URL%
:include_path: ../../../../logstash/docs/include
///////////////////////////////////////////
END - GENERATED VARIABLES, DO NOT EDIT!
///////////////////////////////////////////

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}"]

=== Avro codec plugin

include::{include_path}/plugin_header.asciidoc[]

==== Description

Read serialized Avro records as Logstash events

This plugin is used to serialize Logstash events as 
Avro datums, as well as deserializing Avro datums into 
Logstash events.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ecs_metadata"]
==== Event Metadata and the Elastic Common Schema (ECS)

The plugin behaves the same regardless of ECS compatibility, except adding the original message to `[event][original]`.

==== Encoding

This codec is for serializing individual Logstash events 
as Avro datums that are Avro binary blobs. It does not encode 
Logstash events into an Avro file.


==== Decoding

This codec is for deserializing individual Avro records. It is not for reading
Avro files. Avro files have a unique format that must be handled upon input.

.Partial deserialization
[NOTE]
================================================================================
Avro format is known to support partial deserialization of arbitrary fields,
providing a schema containing a subset of the schema which was used to serialize
the data.
This codec *doesn't support partial deserialization of arbitrary fields*.
Partial deserialization _might_ work only when providing a schema which contains
the first `N` fields of the schema used to serialize the data (and 
in the same order).
================================================================================

==== Usage
Example usage with Kafka input.

[source,ruby]
----------------------------------
input {
  kafka {
    codec => avro {
        schema_uri => "/tmp/schema.avsc"
    }
  }
}
filter {
  ...
}
output {
  ...
}
----------------------------------

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-options"]
==== Avro Codec Configuration Options

[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Setting |Input type|Required
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-base64_encoding>> | <<boolean,boolean>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ecs_compatibility>> | <<string,string>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-schema_uri>> |<<string,string>>|Yes
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-tag_on_failure>> |<<boolean,boolean>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-target>> |<<string,string>>|No
|=======================================================================

&nbsp;

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ecs_compatibility"]
===== `ecs_compatibility`

* Value type is <<string,string>>
* Supported values are:
** `disabled`: Avro data added at root level
** `v1`,`v8`: Elastic Common Schema compliant behavior (`[event][original]` is also added)

Controls this plugin's compatibility with the {ecs-ref}[Elastic Common Schema (ECS)].

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-base64_encoding"]
===== `base64_encoding`

* Value type is <<boolean,boolean>>
* Default value is `true`

Select whether use or not the base64 encoding.
When it's `true` and plain message arrives then it's however decoded.
Raises an error if it's `false` and base64 encodec message arrives.


[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-schema_uri"]
===== `schema_uri` 

  * This is a required setting.
  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * There is no default value for this setting.

schema path to fetch the schema from.
This can be a 'http' or 'file' scheme URI
example:

* http - `http://example.com/schema.avsc`
* file - `/path/to/schema.avsc`

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-tag_on_failure"]
===== `tag_on_failure` 

  * Value type is <<boolean,boolean>>
  * Default value is `false`

tag events with `_avroparsefailure` when decode fails

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-target"]
===== `target`

* Value type is <<string,string>>
* There is no default value for this setting.
* This is only relevant when decode data into an event

Define the target field for placing the values. If this setting is not
set, the Avro data will be stored at the root (top level) of the event.

*Example*
[source,ruby]
----------------------------------
input {
  kafka {
    codec => avro {
        schema_uri => "/tmp/schema.avsc"
        target => "[document]"
    }
  }
}
----------------------------------

Commit message:

Converted encoding type selector setting from boolean to a set (binary, base64)

docs/index.asciidoc, after:

:plugin: avro
:type: codec

///////////////////////////////////////////
START - GENERATED VARIABLES, DO NOT EDIT!
///////////////////////////////////////////
:version: %VERSION%
:release_date: %RELEASE_DATE%
:changelog_url: %CHANGELOG_URL%
:include_path: ../../../../logstash/docs/include
///////////////////////////////////////////
END - GENERATED VARIABLES, DO NOT EDIT!
///////////////////////////////////////////

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}"]

=== Avro codec plugin

include::{include_path}/plugin_header.asciidoc[]

==== Description

Read serialized Avro records as Logstash events

This plugin is used to serialize Logstash events as 
Avro datums, as well as deserializing Avro datums into 
Logstash events.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ecs_metadata"]
==== Event Metadata and the Elastic Common Schema (ECS)

The plugin behaves the same regardless of ECS compatibility, except adding the original message to `[event][original]`.

==== Encoding

This codec is for serializing individual Logstash events 
as Avro datums that are Avro binary blobs. It does not encode 
Logstash events into an Avro file.


==== Decoding

This codec is for deserializing individual Avro records. It is not for reading
Avro files. Avro files have a unique format that must be handled upon input.

.Partial deserialization
[NOTE]
================================================================================
Avro format is known to support partial deserialization of arbitrary fields,
providing a schema containing a subset of the schema which was used to serialize
the data.
This codec *doesn't support partial deserialization of arbitrary fields*.
Partial deserialization _might_ work only when providing a schema which contains
the first `N` fields of the schema used to serialize the data (and 
in the same order).
================================================================================

==== Usage
Example usage with Kafka input.

[source,ruby]
----------------------------------
input {
  kafka {
    codec => avro {
        schema_uri => "/tmp/schema.avsc"
    }
  }
}
filter {
  ...
}
output {
  ...
}
----------------------------------

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-options"]
==== Avro Codec Configuration Options

[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Setting |Input type|Required
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-encoding>> | <<string,string>>, one of `["binary", "base64"]`|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ecs_compatibility>> | <<string,string>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-schema_uri>> |<<string,string>>|Yes
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-tag_on_failure>> |<<boolean,boolean>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-target>> |<<string,string>>|No
|=======================================================================

&nbsp;

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ecs_compatibility"]
===== `ecs_compatibility`

* Value type is <<string,string>>
* Supported values are:
** `disabled`: Avro data added at root level
** `v1`,`v8`: Elastic Common Schema compliant behavior (`[event][original]` is also added)

Controls this plugin's compatibility with the {ecs-ref}[Elastic Common Schema (ECS)].

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-encoding"]
===== `encoding`

* Value can be any of: `binary`, `base64`
* Default value is `base64`

Select which encoding to use to represent Avro's payload.
By default, it uses `base64`, however could be customized with `binary` to use the plain binary bytes.
With `base64` encoding the raw binary bytes are converted to a `base64` encoded string.


[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-schema_uri"]
===== `schema_uri` 

  * This is a required setting.
  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * There is no default value for this setting.

schema path to fetch the schema from.
This can be a 'http' or 'file' scheme URI
example:

* http - `http://example.com/schema.avsc`
* file - `/path/to/schema.avsc`

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-tag_on_failure"]
===== `tag_on_failure` 

  * Value type is <<boolean,boolean>>
  * Default value is `false`

tag events with `_avroparsefailure` when decode fails

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-target"]
===== `target`

* Value type is <<string,string>>
* There is no default value for this setting.
* This is only relevant when decode data into an event

Define the target field for placing the values. If this setting is not
set, the Avro data will be stored at the root (top level) of the event.

*Example*
[source,ruby]
----------------------------------
input {
  kafka {
    codec => avro {
        schema_uri => "/tmp/schema.avsc"
        target => "[document]"
    }
  }
}
----------------------------------
